So we are on a roll here, so I want to keep this going, so let's talk about understanding jump cuts
now like we learned before.
This is when the difference between two cuts isn't enough and it's jarring or distracting for the viewer.
And the reason that is, is because you need a certain amount of contrast between two different shots
to create a clean cut.
All of the cuts in our violinist video that we've been working on are all clean cuts.
So you can kind of think of it as black text on a white screen.
If the text is dark enough, there's going to be enough contrast for you to read the letters.
If there isn't enough contrast between the black and white, there's not going to be enough for you
to tell the difference between the two.
So as you can see, I like metaphors.
These things aren't to be taken literally, but it's just another way of looking at the same answer.
And, you know, YouTube has really made jump cuts a lot more acceptable.
But back in the day, I mean, when I came up in the filmmaking world, that was like a scene if you
had jump cuts in your video.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
But the.
But the bottom line is that if you do it, you really want to do it with style and with purpose.
So like in our hyp edit, we were doing jump cuts, cutting forward in time.
And it worked.
But if I were to create some jump cuts with this edit that we're working on, let's see what that would
look like.
So clearly that's not going to be a stylistic decision that we're going to do purposefully, it does
not work with the vibe and the overall aesthetic of this current project.
And with that said, here's an example of the contrast between dark and light that I was talking about.
Here we can easily see this wonderful quote from the Homy, Alan Watts.
You are an aperture through which the universe is looking at and exploring itself.
That's the baby that's deep.
But if we see the contrast between these two things disappearing, you then can't read the day in quote,
there's not enough contrast between what's light in the frame and dark in the frame.
Now, that's a metaphor.
Let's look at a more practical example where not creating enough contrast to make a clean cut actually
is used stylistically to make a cool look and edit.
So as you can see, we have our character going into their car and we're jump cutting ahead in time.
So this is working because it matches the vibe of this specific video.
So just to recap this thought here, all of these cuts in this current project have enough change in
each clip so that each shot has a clean change between one to the other.
And if there wasn't enough change, let's say I did this,
that would create a jumpcut which does not work with this project specifically.
So add that one to your arsenal and remember to use your jump cuts consciously and creatively.